Flip site to v3 as the latest Lit version (#1194)
lit/lit.dev: packages/lit-dev-content/site/blog/2023-10-10-lit-3.0.md

---
tags: blogPosts
layout: blog-post.html
title: "Lit Launch Day: Lit 3.0, Labs graduations, a compiler and more!"
summary: "We're launching the next major version of Lit"
date: 2023-10-10
author:
  - lit-team
---

# Lit Launch Day: Lit 3.0, Labs graduations, a compiler and more!

It's launch day for the Lit team, and we have a bunch of exciting releases to share with the Lit and web components communities!

> After several month of development, the Lit team is happy to announce the final release of Lit 3.0 - our fist major version since Lit 2.0 in early 2021 - the first graduating class of Lit Labs packages: `@lit/react`, `@lit/task`, and `@lit/context`, and two bonus releases `@lit-labs/compiler` and `@lit-labs/preact-signals`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After several months of development, the Lit team is happy to announce the final release of Lit 3.0 - our fist major version since Lit 2.0 in early 2021 - the first graduating class of Lit Labs packages: `@lit/react`, `@lit/task`, and `@lit/context`, and two bonus releases `@lit-labs/compiler` and `@lit-labs/preact-signals`.
```

This is a big release, so here are links to the individual announcements:
- [Lit 3.0](#lit-3.0)
- [The New Lit Template Compiler](#compiler)
- [Labs Graduation Day](#labs-graduation)
- [Preact Signals Integration](#preact-signals)

## Lit 3.0: Bye, Bye IE, Hello TC39 Decorators! { #lit-3.0 }

> As we've mentioned before, we value stability for our customers. Breaking changes are a cost that our customers and entire ecosystem have to bear: projects have to upgrade, multiple versions can be included in an app, and documents, samples, tutorials, starter kits, etc. might have to be updated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We value stability for our community. Breaking changes are a cost that every user and the entire ecosystem has to bear: projects have to upgrade, multiple versions can be included in an app, and documents, samples, tutorials, starter kits, etc. have to be updated for every breaking change.
```

> So we want to only make breaking changes when we must, or when there's a large benefit to the project or user like decreased code size, increased performance, or in this case, a significant reduction in maintenance burden.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So we want to only make breaking changes when we must, or when the benefits to the community clearly outweigh the costs. For benefits we look for decreased code size, increased performance, reduction in maintenance burden, and better alignment with standards.
```

The Lit 3.0 changes are mostly in browser support, removing deprecated APIs, and how packages are published. If you run Lit 2.x with no deprecation warnings, this should be a seamless upgrade!

Here are the biggest things Lit 3.0 changes:
- IE11 is no longer supported.
- Lit's npm modules are now published as ES2021.
- APIs deprecated with the Lit 2.0 release have been removed.
- SSR hydration support modules were moved to the `@lit-labs/ssr-client` package.
- Decorator behavior has been unified between TypeScript experimental decorators and standard decorators.

### Standard Decorators

### Upgrading

The upgrade from Lit 2.0 should be seamless for the vast majority of users. You can usually upgrade your npm dependency version with:

```sh
> npm i lit@latest
```

You can find more details and how to handle the changes in the [Lit 3 upgrade guide](/docs/v3/releases/upgrade/).

Detailed change logs can be found [on GitHub](https://github.com/lit/lit/releases?q=%22-pre.1%22&expanded=true).

## Even Faster Rendering with the new Lit Template Compiler { #compiler }

> The Lit team is excited to announce a new Labs package [`@lit-labs/compiler`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@lit-labs/compiler), which provides a [TypeScript Transformer](https://github.com/itsdouges/typescript-transformer-handbook#the-basics) that can be run over your JavaScript or TypeScript files to optimize away some of the work that Lit would have to do at runtime!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Lit team is excited to announce a new Labs package [`@lit-labs/compiler`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@lit-labs/compiler), which provides a [TypeScript Transformer](https://github.com/itsdouges/typescript-transformer-handbook#the-basics) that can be run over your JavaScript or TypeScript files to do build-time preparation  of Lit templates that Lit would normally do at runtime.
```

Lit can skip an internal render phase called the Prepare phase, meaning you get a quicker initial render.

As you can see in the above example, there is some additional code generated as part of the transform. We’ve measured that minified and compressed, you may get a 5% increase in file size for the compiled file. This is something we have plans to address.

### Looking forward

We’d love to hear from you and get feedback on your experience using the transform, as well as hear what you’d like to see optimized! Leave that feedback in this [Labs Feedback discussion](https://github.com/lit/lit/discussions/4117). We’d also like to learn more about what build systems Lit is used in, and welcome contributions!

This is just the beginning. With this new package we have a foundation for layering on additional build-time optimizations. Some optimizations we’ve thought about:

- For a Lit app which can be completely compiled, we could vend an import of lit-html that is smaller.
- Add an option to the compiler transform to also minify the HTML in the templates.

> - Provide domain specific and targeted transforms, such as a standard decorator transform with a smaller emit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Do build-time evaluation of other parts of the Lit API, e.g. to compile decorated fields into the accessors they would generate.
```

Reviewer 2: How about: "Do build-time evaluation of other parts of the Lit API, such as compiling away the built-in Lit decorators."

Reviewer: Yeah that's more elegant, let's go with that

> - Compress the emitted output file by applying domain specific file compression.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Compress the emitted output file by applying domain-specific file compression.
```

- Setting properties on elements (rather than attributes)
- Adding handlers for custom events
- Type checking custom elements and their props

Some of these are being addressed by React in a future version, but they are currently only present in experimental builds not recommended for production.

`@lit/react` allows creation of React components wrapping the custom element. The created components can be idiomatic to React such that users of the component do not have to worry about the inner web component implementaion.

It is useful for both web component authors who wish to vend React versions of their components for users to reach a wider audience, as well as React developers who wish to use a neat web component that they found in their project more ergonomically.

`@lit-labs/react` has been our most popular labs project by far with over 500k weekly npm downloads and is already being used by many web component libraries to provide React versions of their components to users.

Read more about it at our [React framework integration](/docs/frameworks/react) documentation.

### Task

> Rendering asynchronously retrieved data in a Lit component, while not terribly difficult to do, can involve a lot of boiler plate code to do properly with all the edge cases to handle.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Working with asynchronous data in a Lit component tends to involve boiler plate code, and there are a few subtle edge cases to handle. Task is a simple ReactiveController that automatically handles these edge cases and makes it easy to do asynchronous work correctly.
```

Some considerations include:
- Conditionally rendering different content while the data is pending, retrieved, or the request failed
- Handling race conditions, ensuring the data for the latest request is kept and previous requests are cancelled or ignored if completed later

> `@lit/task` provides a reactive controller to help manage this async workflow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> We've found ourselves, on numerous occasions, starting a barebones example with asynchronous requests and quickly reaching to `@lit-labs/task` for its convenience. We've refined the API and added features like providing an `AbortSignal` while the project was being developed under labs. We are happy to officially graduate and encourage everyone to use it!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We've found `@lit-labs/task` indispensable when working with asynchronous value. It includes a number of refinements since its initial release, like how every task receives an `AbortSignal` that the library ensures aborts if the task run becomes obsolete. 

We are happy for it to officially graduate and encourage everyone to use it! For more info see the new [Async Tasks](/docs/data/task/) docs page.
```

Reviewer 2: "asynchronous value" -> "asynchronous values"

> Checkout the details with examples and various usages in the [Async Tasks](/docs/data/task/) documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

### Context

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`@lit/context` is an interoperable system for an element to request data from any of its ancestors. It's useful for shared elements to receive configuration from their environemnt, for elements in a composable plugin system to exhange data, and as an interoperable DOM-based dependency injection system.

Start by creating a context using the `createContext()` function. A context acts as a key, for the consumer and provider of the data to identify each other.

Then, on the prividing element, declare a property with the `@provide` decorator. As with the main `lit` decorators, these work as standard decorators, and with TypeScript's `experimentalDecorators` option enabled. The property's value will be made available to any descendents of the element that consume the context.

Finally, on the consuming element, declare a property with the `@consume` decorator. When the element attaches to the DOM it will receive the current value of the first ancestor that provides the context. If called with `subscribe: true` then it will also receive updates as the value changes.

For more info, see the [Context](/docs/data/context/) documentation.
```

- We now call `requestUpdate()` automatically for `@property` and `@state` decorated accessors where previously that was the setter's responsibility.
- The value of an accessor is read on first render and used as the initial value for `changedProperties` and attribute reflection.
- `@property` and `@state` must be used on the setter for hand-written accessors.

Standard decorator mode requires [TypeScript 5.2](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/typescript/announcing-typescript-5-2/#decorator-metadata) or [Babel 7.23](https://babeljs.io/blog/2023/09/25/7.23.0) with the [`@babel/plugin-proposal-decorators`](https://babeljs.io/docs/babel-plugin-proposal-decorators) plugin using decorator version `"2023-05"`.

### Upgrading

The upgrade from Lit 2.0 should be seamless for the vast majority of users. You can usually upgrade your npm dependency version with:

```sh
> npm i lit@latest
```

You can find more details and how to handle the changes in the [Lit 3 upgrade guide](/docs/v3/releases/upgrade/).

Detailed change logs can be found [on GitHub](https://github.com/lit/lit/releases?q=%22-pre.1%22&expanded=true).

## Even Faster Rendering with the new Lit Template Compiler { #compiler }

> The Lit team is excited to announce a new Labs package [`@lit-labs/compiler`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@lit-labs/compiler), which provides a [TypeScript Transformer](https://github.com/itsdouges/typescript-transformer-handbook#the-basics) that can be run over your JavaScript or TypeScript files to optimize away some of the work that Lit would have to do at runtime!

Reviewer 2: We already did an "excited to announce" thing above. Can we do some kind of "also" or other lead in here?

- We now call `requestUpdate()` automatically for `@property` and `@state` decorated accessors where previously that was the setter's responsibility.
- The value of an accessor is read on first render and used as the initial value for `changedProperties` and attribute reflection.
- `@property` and `@state` must be used on the setter for hand-written accessors.

Standard decorator mode requires [TypeScript 5.2](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/typescript/announcing-typescript-5-2/#decorator-metadata) or [Babel 7.23](https://babeljs.io/blog/2023/09/25/7.23.0) with the [`@babel/plugin-proposal-decorators`](https://babeljs.io/docs/babel-plugin-proposal-decorators) plugin using decorator version `"2023-05"`.

### Upgrading

The upgrade from Lit 2.0 should be seamless for the vast majority of users. You can usually upgrade your npm dependency version with:

```sh
> npm i lit@latest
```

You can find more details and how to handle the changes in the [Lit 3 upgrade guide](/docs/v3/releases/upgrade/).

Detailed change logs can be found [on GitHub](https://github.com/lit/lit/releases?q=%22-pre.1%22&expanded=true).

## Even Faster Rendering with the new Lit Template Compiler { #compiler }

> The Lit team is excited to announce a new Labs package [`@lit-labs/compiler`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@lit-labs/compiler), which provides a [TypeScript Transformer](https://github.com/itsdouges/typescript-transformer-handbook#the-basics) that can be run over your JavaScript or TypeScript files to do build-time preparation  of Lit templates that Lit would normally do at runtime.

Author: ```suggestion
The new [`@lit-labs/compiler`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@lit-labs/compiler) Labs package, provides a [TypeScript Transformer](https://github.com/itsdouges/typescript-transformer-handbook#the-basics) that can be run over your JavaScript or TypeScript files to do build-time preparation  of Lit templates that Lit would normally do at runtime.
```

---
tags: blogPosts
layout: blog-post.html
title: "Lit Launch Day: Lit 3.0, Labs graduations, a compiler and more!"
summary: "We're launching the next major version of Lit"
date: 2023-10-10
author:
  - lit-team
---

# Lit Launch Day: Lit 3.0, Labs graduations, a compiler and more!

> It's launch day for the Lit team, and we have a bunch of exciting releases to share with the Lit and web components communities!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's launch day for the Lit project, and we have a bunch of exciting releases to share with the Lit and web components communities!
```

team -> project, to emphasize the community more?

Reviewer: or perhaps "the Lit Community"?

### Looking forward

We’d love to hear from you and get feedback on your experience using the transform, as well as hear what you’d like to see optimized! Leave that feedback in this [Labs Feedback discussion](https://github.com/lit/lit/discussions/4117). We’d also like to learn more about what build systems Lit is used in, and welcome contributions!

This is just the beginning. With this new package we have a foundation for layering on additional build-time optimizations. Some optimizations we’ve thought about:

- For a Lit app which can be completely compiled, we could vend an import of lit-html that is smaller.
- Add an option to the compiler transform to also minify the HTML in the templates.
- Do build-time evaluation of other parts of the Lit API, such as compiling away the built-in Lit decorators.
- Compress the emitted output file by applying domain-specific file compression.

## Preact Signals integration

Signals: they're so hot right now!

> Many frameworks are adopting signals – observable holders of state and computation – for performance and DX improvements. Lit already has a very efficient rendering system, and in preliminary tests signals aren't a clear performance improvement.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Many frameworks are adopting signals – reactove holders of state and computation – for performance and DX improvements. Lit already has a very efficient rendering system, and our preliminary benchmarks don't show a clear performance wins from signals.
```

---
tags: blogPosts
layout: blog-post.html
title: "Lit Launch Day: Lit 3.0, Labs graduations, a compiler and more!"
summary: "We're launching the next major version of Lit"
date: 2023-10-10
author:
  - lit-team
---

# Lit Launch Day: Lit 3.0, Labs graduations, a compiler and more!

It's launch day for the Lit team, and we have a bunch of exciting releases to share with the Lit and web components communities!

> After several months of development, the Lit team is happy to announce the final release of Lit 3.0 - our fist major version since Lit 2.0 in early 2021 - the first graduating class of Lit Labs packages: `@lit/react`, `@lit/task`, and `@lit/context`, and two bonus releases `@lit-labs/compiler` and `@lit-labs/preact-signals`.

Reviewer 3: Replaced first hyphen with em-dash, then a comma.
```suggestion
After several months of development, the Lit team is happy to announce the final release of Lit 3.0 – our fist major version since Lit 2.0 in early 2021, the first graduating class of Lit Labs packages `@lit/react`, `@lit/task`, and `@lit/context`, and two bonus releases `@lit-labs/compiler` and `@lit-labs/preact-signals`.
```

This is a big release, so here are links to the individual announcements:
- [Lit 3.0](#lit-3.0)
- [The New Lit Template Compiler](#compiler)

> - [Labs Graduation Day](#labs-graduation)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Preact Signals Integration](#preact-signals)
- [Labs Graduation Day](#labs-graduation)
```

Reviewer: Note the hash needs to be updated

> - [Preact Signals Integration](#preact-signals)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> This is a big release, so here are links to the individual announcements:
> - [Lit 3.0](#lit-3.0)
> - [The New Lit Template Compiler](#compiler)
> - [Labs Graduation Day](#labs-graduation)
> - [Preact Signals Integration](#preact-signals)

Reviewer 3: Reorder to match content order
```suggestion
This is a big release, so here are links to the individual announcements:
- [Lit 3.0](#lit-3.0)
- [The New Lit Template Compiler](#compiler)
- [Preact Signals Integration](#preact-signals)
- [Labs Graduation Day](#labs-graduation)
```

## Lit 3.0: Bye, Bye IE, Hello TC39 Decorators! { #lit-3.0 }

> We value stability for our community. Breaking changes are a cost that every user and the entire ecosystem has to bear: projects have to upgrade, multiple versions can be included in an app, and documents, samples, tutorials, starter kits, etc. have to be updated for every breaking change.

Reviewer 3: eh.. em-dash over colon here?
```suggestion
We value stability for our community. Breaking changes are a cost that every user and the entire ecosystem has to bear – projects have to upgrade, multiple versions can be included in an app, and documents, samples, tutorials, starter kits, etc. have to be updated for every breaking change.
```

Reviewer: I like the colon here actually

So we want to only make breaking changes when we must, or when the benefits to the community clearly outweigh the costs. For benefits we tend look for decreased code size, increased performance, reduction in maintenance burden, and better alignment with standards.

> We also follow [semantic versioning](https://semver.org/), so we increase the major version only when there are breaking changes. New features typically arrive in new _minor_ versions, which are backwards compatible. So Lit 3.0 is intended to only be a breaking change, with no new features. There is one exception though -standard decorators!

Reviewer 3: em-dash and space
```suggestion
We also follow [semantic versioning](https://semver.org/), so we increase the major version only when there are breaking changes. New features typically arrive in new _minor_ versions, which are backwards compatible. So Lit 3.0 is intended to only be a breaking change, with no new features. There is one exception though – standard decorators!
```

### Breaking changes

For Lit 3.0, the biggest breaking change is that we've dropped IE11 support. After surveying our developer community, we feel like now is the right time to say goodbye to IE, and very few customers will be affected.

This release is also an opportunity to make a few additional breaking changes that trim out some technical debt to unlock new features we have scheduled for our 3.x release series and beyond.

These changes are hopefully minor for most customers. If you run Lit 2.x with no deprecation warnings, and use toolchain that supports modern JS, this should be a seamless upgrade!

Here are the biggest things Lit 3.0 changes:
- IE11 is no longer supported.
- Lit's npm modules are now published as ES2021.
- APIs deprecated with the Lit 2.0 release have been removed.
- SSR hydration support modules were moved to the `@lit-labs/ssr-client` package.
- Decorator behavior has been unified between TypeScript experimental decorators and standard decorators.
- Support was removed for Babel decorators version "2018-09"

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Full details in the [the upgrade guide](/docs/v3/releases/upgrade/).

```

Reviewer: We mention it below, but it's one of the most important links in the page, it's worth repeating

### New: standard decorators support

The one new feature that we _did_ add to Lit 3.0 is support for the TC39 standard decorators specification to our _existing_ decorators.

The new decorator spec has reached Stage 3 in TC39, meaning that browsers and compilers are now implementing them. This is a huge step for Lit! The arrival of standard decorators allows us to begin the process of moving to a decorator implementation that won't require a compiler to use.

It's very important to us to make the upgrade path from experimental decorators as smooth as possible. To accomplish this we made our existing decorators support the standard spec and made them work with the new `accessor` keyword in experimental decorator mode.

This way you can use Lit decorators with auto-accessors (using the `accessor` keyword) so that the same call site works with both settings:

```ts
class MyElement extends LitElement {
  @property()
  accessor myProperty = 'hello';
}
```

Once all decorator call sites in your project use the `accessor` keyword, you can build with `experimentalDecorators` set to `true` or `false` without a change in behavior.

> But in order to make these hybrid decorators have consistent behavior in both modes we had to make a few minor breaking changes to our experimental decorators:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
But in order to make these hybrid decorators have consistent behavior in both modes, we had to make a few minor breaking changes to our experimental decorators:
```

- We now call `requestUpdate()` automatically for `@property` and `@state` decorated accessors where previously that was the setter's responsibility.
- The value of an accessor is read on first render and used as the initial value for `changedProperties` and attribute reflection.
- `@property` and `@state` must be used on the setter for hand-written accessors.

Standard decorator mode requires [TypeScript 5.2](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/typescript/announcing-typescript-5-2/#decorator-metadata) or [Babel 7.23](https://babeljs.io/blog/2023/09/25/7.23.0) with the [`@babel/plugin-proposal-decorators`](https://babeljs.io/docs/babel-plugin-proposal-decorators) plugin using decorator version `"2023-05"`.

### Upgrading

The upgrade from Lit 2.0 should be seamless for the vast majority of users. You can usually upgrade your npm dependency version with:

```sh
> npm i lit@latest
```

You can find more details and how to handle the changes in the [Lit 3 upgrade guide](/docs/v3/releases/upgrade/).

> Detailed change logs can be found [on GitHub](https://github.com/lit/lit/releases?q=%22-pre.1%22&expanded=true).

Reviewer 3: Changed search query to "3.0.0" rather than "-pre.1". We could even link to the `lit@3.0.0` tag but that'll have to be after it's published.
```suggestion
Detailed change logs can be found [on GitHub](https://github.com/lit/lit/releases?q=lit%403.0.0&expanded=true).
```

## Even Faster Rendering with the new Lit Template Compiler { #compiler }

The Lit team is excited to announce a new Labs package [`@lit-labs/compiler`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@lit-labs/compiler), which provides a [TypeScript Transformer](https://github.com/itsdouges/typescript-transformer-handbook#the-basics) that can be run over your JavaScript or TypeScript files to do build-time preparation  of Lit templates that Lit would normally do at runtime.

![Lit Compiler benchmarks](/images/blog/3.0-launch/compiler-benchmarks.png)

> In a best case scenario with a template heavy page, we measured a 46% faster first render, and a 21% faster update!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In a benchmark that featured large and complicated templates, we measured a 46% faster first render, and a 21% faster update!
```

Reviewer 2: The previous phrasing hedged things a bit, can we keep expectations in check with a range? Maybe "While not all templates will see rendering performance improvements from compilation, on our "template heavy" benchmark we measured..."

`@lit/context` is an interoperable system for an element to request data from any of its ancestors. It's useful for shared elements to receive configuration from their environemnt, for elements in a composable plugin system to exhange data, and as an interoperable DOM-based dependency injection system.

Start by creating a context using the `createContext()` function. A context acts as a key, for the consumer and provider of the data to identify each other.

Then, on the providing element, declare a property with the `@provide` decorator. As with the main `lit` decorators, these work as standard decorators, and with TypeScript's `experimentalDecorators` option enabled. The property's value will be made available to any descendents of the element that consume the context.

Finally, on the consuming element, declare a property with the `@consume` decorator. When the element attaches to the DOM it will receive the current value of the first ancestor that provides the context. If called with `subscribe: true` then it will also receive updates as the value changes.

For more info, see the [Context](/docs/data/context/) documentation.

## We're excited to see what you build with Lit!

> We're constantly amazed by the things the Lit and web components communities are building, and can't wait to see what's going to be made with Lit 3.0 and our growing collection of helper libraries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The web components community continues to grow, with new projects big and small joining almost every day. The story of web components is still unfolding, and with the release of Lit 3.0, we're excited to write the next chapter together.
```

---
tags: blogPosts
layout: blog-post.html
title: "Lit Launch Day: Lit 3.0, Labs graduations, a compiler and more!"
summary: "We're launching the next major version of Lit"
date: 2023-10-10
author:
  - lit-team
---

# Lit Launch Day: Lit 3.0, Labs graduations, a compiler and more!

It's launch day for the Lit project, and we have a bunch of exciting releases to share with the Lit and web components communities!

After several months of development, the Lit team is happy to announce the final release of Lit 3.0 – our fist major version since Lit 2.0 in early 2021, the first graduating class of Lit Labs packages `@lit/react`, `@lit/task`, and `@lit/context`, and two bonus releases `@lit-labs/compiler` and `@lit-labs/preact-signals`.

This is a big release, so here are links to the individual announcements:
- [Lit 3.0](#lit-3.0)
- [The New Lit Template Compiler](#compiler)

> - [Preact Signals Integration](#preact-signals)

Reviewer 3: Updating hash as pointed out by @rictic in the other comment
```suggestion
- [Preact Signals Integration](#preact-signals-integration)
```

### Upgrading

The upgrade from Lit 2.0 should be seamless for the vast majority of users. You can usually upgrade your npm dependency version with:

```sh
> npm i lit@latest
```

You can find more details and how to handle the changes in the [Lit 3 upgrade guide](/docs/v3/releases/upgrade/).

Detailed change logs can be found [on GitHub](https://github.com/lit/lit/releases?q=lit%403.0.0&expanded=true).

## Even Faster Rendering with the new Lit Template Compiler { #compiler }

The new [`@lit-labs/compiler`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@lit-labs/compiler) Labs package provides a [TypeScript Transformer](https://github.com/itsdouges/typescript-transformer-handbook#the-basics) that can be run over your JavaScript or TypeScript files to do build-time preparation  of Lit templates that Lit would normally do at runtime.

![Lit Compiler benchmarks](/images/blog/3.0-launch/compiler-benchmarks.png)

> In a best case scenario with a template heavy page, we measured a 46% faster first render, and a 21% faster update!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
While not all templates will see rendering performance improvements from compilation, on our "template heavy" benchmark we measured a 46% faster first render, and a 21% faster update!
```
